Hi, everyone, in this election, we will be drawing the walls and the panel, all right.
So whenever we create the functions, until we get back to them, I'm just going to go ahead and collapse
them.
You can just click on this arrow next to the functions, and I'm just going to go ahead and collapse
it because we'll be having a lot of functions.
So let's grab the dry drawls function.
So what I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create that.
OK, so this is Draw Watts.
And first off, what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a variable for half of the wall because
the wall is going to be like half of the wall is going to be on the canvas and half of it is going to
be off the canvas.
So we are going to have half wall and that's a wall time, zero point five.
This is going to give us half of the width of the wall.
And let's grab our canvas context and let's say a line with let's set it to wall.
And that's going to be the width of that line.
What is the stroke style?
So canvas start stroke style is going to be the color of the wall that we have.
You can't change any color that you want.
It's not going to be any problem.
So let's come down here.
Let's grab our canvas context and begin path.
So right after that.
So what we are going to do is where is where is it going to be the starting point?
The starting point is going to be the bottom left corner of the of the canvas.
So we are going to say canvas contacts start move to.
All right, and it is going to be the half warns starting point and the height of the canvas, this
is going to be the X and the Y positions for the starting point and where the line is going to go to.
So the line.
Let's see.
So that line.
OK, so we are going to go to the height of the wall first.
So we are going to have four for the X and for the way we are going to have half wall as well.
So because we are going to have three walls.
What we are going to do is we are going to have three line twos, so the first line two is going to
go to top left.
The second one should go to the top right.
So the right part is the farthest part, which is the width of the canvas.
But we don't want the wall to appear after the width.
So we should, from the width, subtract the width of the wall.
Right.
The next point is going to be a bottom right, which is the point at which we have our height.
So.
So we have so we have our move to we have our this is our first OK.
I shouldn't have written it there, OK, I should put it right here.
So this is going to be with we should subtract from the with half of the wall and then the thickness
or the Y position is going to be half of the wall.
And after that the Y position is going to be the height.
Right, so let's grab that, let's set it to height and the exposition of the wall is going to be again
with minus that half of the wall.
Perfect.
So let's save it.
And for us to be able to see this, let's go ahead and let's actually draw.
That's a stroke.
We need to call this function as well.
So I'm going to come inside this play game and right down there, I'm going to call the dry walls function
and let's save it.
So if I come here, you can see that we have our walls and if we decrease the width of the screen,
the width of the walls is going to get decreased.
That's why we have passed in with and height in here, because we actually want these to be responsive.
So they draw draw walls, function is completed as well.
And I'm going to go ahead and collapse that function right after that.
What I want to do is.
I want to go ahead and actually create a function that is called the new game function, right?
OK, so the new game function, I'm just going to go ahead and create it on below this dry walls function
and this function is responsible for actually creating a new game for us.
And inside this function is where we will be instantiating the paddle class.
So I'm going to call this new game.
Perfect and in here, I'm going to go ahead and let's see if we have have we we have a height with and
ball we have why have we have not declared the paddle?
So what should I why should it.
What should I do here is I'm going to go to top.
So beneath this dimension's.
Right, so you know what, I'm just going to I'm going to do this first here and then we are going to
go and create that instantiate that panel.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to say in initializing initializing the panel.
Part of.
The paddle ball, the paddle and ball classes, we are going to initialize them right here, come on
and let's see, let's say paddle and then we will have our ball.
Now for the touch event, what we would have is we need to provide a touch position as well.
I'm just going to go ahead and provide it, even though we are going to cover it way later.
And I'm going to call this touch location.
So you know that in your mind that we will be making this responsive.
So let's come down here.
So now let's go ahead and let's instantiate this paddle.
All right, so the panel is going to be new panel and we are going to pass on the panel with the wall
and the panel spect these are necessary for us to be able to create that class that we will be in,
just like in just a few seconds.
Right.
So we have created this one as well.
All right.
So on top of these function calls, I'm going to come here and I'm going to say the panel class.
All right, and we are going to create a class and we're going to call it panel perfect and this is
going to receive a constructor and within the constructor as we pass parameters for which we have arguments.
So we have arguments for panel with wall and panel speech.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to write parallel with and I'm going to say paddle this.
The wall is actually going to be the paddles height.
And then we have the panels with sorry, speed, paddle speed.
Perfect.
So you're going to say this dot now what is going to be the width of the paddle?
The width of the paddle is going to be paddle with times the width of the screen.
Perfect.
Then we are going to have the height.
What is going to be the height of the paddle?
The height of the paddle is going to be the paddle height divided by two.
The reason that I divided by two was because it was big.
So I just wanted to reduce that.
What is going to be the exposition of the paddle whenever the new game is called?
Whenever we have a new game, the width of the paddle is going to be at the middle point horizontally.
So canvas element dot with metal point is going to be divided by two.
The the Y position is going to be right at the bottom, but we are going to give it some distance from
the bottom.
So if I come here, you can see that it is detached from the screen somewhat.
So we are going to say canvas.
So bottom of the page is going to be canvas elements, height.
And from that, we are going to reduce the height of the paddle three times the height.
So it is going to be detached from the bottom of the screen by three times the height of the paddle.
The speed at which the paddle is going to move is going to be paddle, paddle, speed.
Perfect, so we have.
The paddle speed times the width.
Perfect.
All right.
And finally, the X, because the paddles just moving from one side to the next side, we're just going
to have an X velocity and we are going to set it to zero.
Perfect, so we have created this now what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to
create a drop panel function.
All right, so underneath this draw background, but on top of the draw was what I'm going to do is
right here, I'm going to grab this comment and I'm going to put it there and I'm going to say draw,
paddle.
And you know, where we are going to call it.
We are going to call it within our game loop.
So function we have drawn the background knowledge to draw the paddle, draw, paddle and what do we
have here?
So what we are going to do is first I'm going to give the paddle a color.
So Conn's Conex Times Phil style.
It is going to be the color purple that we have created perfect, so we want to create a basically a
rectangle.
So context to fill the RECHT, what is the exposition?
Because I wanted it to be exactly in the center.
So it is going to be part of that X right.
Minus now, if I wanted to be, I want the center of the panel to be exactly at the center of the page
horizontally.
So I want half of the panel to be on one side and half on the other side.
That's why we are going to say panel dot with time zero point five or if this makes you feel better,
I'm just going to say divide it by two, but I'm just going to say zero point five anyway.
So if you say zero point divided by two zero point five doesn't really matter.
And in case you just have to take care of the multiplication and the division part.
So the paddles y position is going to act in the same way.
So we are going to have the paddles height divided by two.
I'm going to do this divided by two.
Then the paddles with is going to be the paddle w the paddles height is going to be the paddle a.
Perfect, so now let's go ahead and let's call the panel, so below this drawback, draw walls.
I'm going to call this a draw panel function, let's save it, let's come here and we see all this cannot
property X of Padel is undefined.
Why is that undefined line fifty 54.
Uh, Padel ex.
We have we have, said Padel.
And we have this X is canvas element, so we do have we have defined it right and I'm not sure why is
it not grabbing it?
It should it should get it so.
So I think the reason that this is not working is because we are not actually instantiating this panel,
the reason for that is we are not calling this new game.
So I'm just going to come down here and I'm going to call the new game.
Of course, we are going to call it in some other place and we are going to come and this one out.
But for the purposes of this lecture, I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to call it and this
is you can see it's really overworking.
So I'm just going to close that and I'm going to open this and let's open that up.
Let's see what else is the problem.
So now we have called that a panel is not a constructor type type error.
So where is it?
It says that, come on, it says that on the line 76.
So let me just make this paddle is not a constructor.
Seventy six, so online 76, we have our panel.
Oh, this is lower case.
You can see that even with one thing, lower case, you're going to have like an array of errors.
And there we go.
This is our panel.
We have successfully drawn the panel and well, basically.
And if you just click there and you move it, it is not moving because we have not specified those events
yet.
Right.
So we have successfully drawn the panel.
And that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.